Basic Commands 


Explain the difference between these two commands. find /data -name "*.txt" find /data -name *.txt 
Answer: When *.txt is quoted then the shell will not touch it. The find tool will look in the /data for all files ending in .txt. When *.txt is not quoted then the shell might expand this (when one or more files that ends in .txt exist in the current directory). The find might show a different result, or can result in a syntax error.

Explain the difference between these two statements. Will they both work when there are 200 .odf files in /data ? How about when there are 2 million .odf files ? find /data -name ".odf" > data_odf.txt find /data/.odf > data_odf.txt 
Answer: The first find will output all (.odf) filenames in (/data) and all subdirectories. The shell will redirect this to a file. The second find will output all files named .odf in /data and will also output all files that exist in directories named *.odf (in /data). With two million files the command line would be expanded beyond the maximum that the shell can accept. The last part of the command line would be lost.

Write a find command that finds all files created after January 30th 2010. 
Answer: touch -t 201001302359 marker_date find . -type f -newer marker_date

Write a find command that finds all .odf files created in September 2009. 
Answer: touch -t 200908312359 marker_start touch -t 200910010000 marker_end find . -type f -name ".odf" -newer marker_start ! -newer marker_end

Count the number of .conf files in /etc and all its subdirs. 
Answer: find /etc -type f -name '.conf' | wc -l

Here are two commands that do the same thing: copy .odf files to /backup/ . What would be a reason to replace the first command with the second ? cp -r /data/.odf /backup/ find /data -name "*.odf" -exec cp {} /backup/ \; 
Answer: The first might fail when there are too many files to fit on one command line.

Create a file called loctest.txt. Can you find this file with locate ? Why not ? How do you make locate find this file ? 
Answer: You cannot locate this with locate because it is not available yet in the index. We use (updatedb) to locate this file.

Use find and -exec to rename all .htm files to .html. 
Answer: find . -name '.htm' ./one.htm ./two.htm find . -name '.htm' -exec mv {} {}l \; find . -name '.htm' ./one.html ./two.html

Issue the date command. Now display the date in YYYY/MM/DD format. 
Answer: date "+%Y/%m/%d"

Issue the cal command. Display a calendar of 1582 and 1752. Notice anything special ? 
Answer: There is a skip of 11 days in 1752.