working with directories 


Display your current directory. 
Answer: pwd Current directory: /bin

Change to the /etc directory. 
Answer: cd /etc

Now change to your home directory using only three key presses. 
Answer: cd

Change to the /boot/grub directory using only eleven key presses. 
Answer: cd /boot/grub (use tab to complete the path)

Go to the parent directory of the current directory. 
Answer: cd ..

Go to the root directory. 
Answer: cd /

List the contents of the root directory. 
Answer: ls

List a long listing of the root directory. 
Answer: ls -l

Stay where you are, and list the contents of /etc. 
Answer: ls -l /etc

Stay where you are, and list the contents of /bin and /sbin. 
Answer: ls /bin /sbin

Stay where you are, and list the contents of ~. 
Answer: ls ~

List all the files (including hidden files) in your home directory. 
Answer: ls -a (-a list all the files)

List the files in /boot in a human readable format. 
Answer: ls -h /boot (-h lists in human readable format)

Create a directory testdir in your home directory. 
Answer: mkdir ~/testdir

Change to the /etc directory, stay here and create a directory newdir in your home directory. 
Answer: cd /etc mkdir ~/newdir

Create in one command the directories ~/dir1/dir2/dir3 (dir3 is a subdirectory from dir2,and dir2 is a subdirectory from dir1 ). Answer: mkdir -p ~/dir1/dir2/dir3 (-p to create parent directory in this case dir1/dir2q)

Remove the directory testdir. 
Answer: rmdir testdir

Open manual page for bash and read about pushd and popd by searching in manpage. 
Answer: man bash To find in man pages: /<wordtobesearched> TO navigate through the search results: n