file contents 


Display the first 12 lines of /etc/services. 
Answer: head -12 /etc/services

Display the last line of /etc/passwd. 
Answer: tail -1 /etc/passwd

Use cat to create a file named count.txt that looks like this: One Two Three Four Five
Answer: cat > count.txt One Two Three Four Five press ctrl+d

Use cp to make a backup of this file to cnt.txt. 
Answer: cp count.txt cnt.txt

Use cat to make a backup of this file to catcnt.txt. 
Answer: cat count.txt > catcnt.txt

Display catcnt.txt, but with all lines in reverse order (the last line first). 
Answer: tac catcnt.txt

Use more to display /etc/services. 
Answer: more /etc/services

Display the readable character strings from the /usr/bin/passwd command. 
Answer: strings /usr/bin/passwd

Use ls to find the biggest file in /etc. 
Answer: ls -lrs

Open two terminal windows (or tabs) and make sure you are in the same directory in both. Type echo this is the first line > tailing.txt in the first terminal, then issue tail -f tailing.txt in the second terminal. Now go back to the first terminal and type echo This is another line >> tailing.txt (note the double >>), verify that the tail -f in the second terminal shows both lines. Stop the tail -f with Ctrl-C. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ echo this is the first line > tailing.txt genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ tail -f tailing.txt this is the first line genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ echo This is another line >> tailing.txt genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ tail -f tailing.txt this is the first line This is another line

Use cat to create a file named tailing1.txt that contains the contents of tailing.txt followed by the contents of /etc/passwd. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ cat /etc/passwd >> tailing1.txt

Use cat to create a file named tailing2.txt that contains the contents of tailing.txt preceded by the contents of /etc/passwd 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ mv tailing1.txt tmp.txt ; cat /etc/passwd tmp.txt > tailing2.txt