commands and arguments:


How many arguments are in this line (not counting the command itself). touch '/etc/cron/cron.allow' 'file 42.txt' "file 33.txt" 
Answer: Three

Is tac a shell builtin command ? 
Answer: type tac The tac command in Linux is used to concatenate and print files in reverse

Is there an existing alias for rm ? 
Answer: You can make rm to always prompt you to confirm a deletion operation, every time you want to delete a file or directory, using the -i option. To configure this permanently, add an alias in your $HOME/.bashrc file. (alias rm="rm -i") >> Example

What is -i option of rm. Create and remove a file to test the -i option. 
Answer: The -i option of rm gives a prompt before every removal. touch tryfile //created file rm -i tryfile rm: remove regular empty file 'testfile'? y //removed file

Execute: alias rm='rm -i' . Test your alias with a test file. Does this work as expected ? 
Answer: Yes it works but it asks for confirmation.

List all current aliases. 
Answer: alias

Create an alias called 'city' that echoes your hometown. 
Answer: alias city='echo Bhilai'

Use your alias to test that it works. 
Answer: city Bhilai

Execute set -x to display shell expansion for every command. 
Answer: set -x

Test the functionality of set -x by executing your city and rm aliases. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ set -x genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ city
echo Bhilai Bhilai genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$

Execute set +x to stop displaying shell expansion. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee58:~/Desktop$ set +x genesis58@Trainee58:~/Desktop$ echo city + echo Bhilai Bhilai

Remove your city alias. 
Answer: unalias city

What is the location of the cat and the passwd commands ? 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~$ which cat
which cat /usr/bin/cat genesis58@Trainee:~$ which passwd
which passwd /usr/bin/passwd genesis58@Trainee:~$

Explain the difference between the following commands: echo /bin/echo 
Answer: The echo command will be interpreted by the shell as the built-in echo command. The /bin/echo command will make the shell execute the echo binary located in the /bin directory.

Explain the difference between the following commands: echo Hello echo -n Hello 
Answer: The -n option of the echo command will prevent echo from echoing a trailing newline. echo Hello will echo six characters in total, echo -n hello only echoes five characters.

Display A B C with two spaces between B and C.
 Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~$ echo "A B C"

echo 'A B C' A B C
Display (do not use spaces) exactly the following output: 4+4 =8 10+14 =24 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~$ echo -e "4+4\t=8" ; echo -e "10+14\t=24"
echo -e '4+4\t=8' 4+4 =8
echo -e '10+14\t=24' 10+14 =24

Use echo to display the following exactly :??\ Find two solutions with single quotes, two with double quotes and one without quotes. 
Answer: ??\ echo '??\' echo -e '??\\' echo "??\\" echo -e "??\\\" echo ??\\

Use one echo command to display three words on three lines. 
Answer: echo -e "one \ntwo \nthree"