standard file permissions 

As normal user, create a directory ~/permissions. Create a file owned by yourself in there. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ mkdir permissions + mkdir permissions genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop/permissions$ touch myfile.txt + touch myfile.txt

Copy a file owned by root from /etc/ to your permissions dir, who owns this file now ? 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop/permissions$ cp /etc/hosts ~/permissions/

cp /etc/hosts /home/genesis58/permissions/ The copy is owned by me.
As root, create a file in the users ~/permissions directory. 
Answer: touch /home/genesis58/permissions/rootfile

As normal user, look at who owns this file created by root. 
Answer: ls -l ~/permissions Owned by root

Change the ownership of all files in ~/permissions to yourself. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~$ chown genesis58 ~/permissions/* You cannot become owner of the file that belongs to root.

Make sure you have all rights to these files, and others can only read. 
Answer: chmod 644 (on files) chmod 755 (on directories)

With chmod, is 770 the same as rwxrwx--- ? 
Answer: Yes

With chmod, is 664 the same as r-xr-xr-- ? 
Answer: Yes

With chmod, is 400 the same as r-------- ? 
Answer: Yes

With chmod, is 734 the same as rwxr-xr-- ? 
Answer: No

11a. Display the umask in octal and in symbolic form. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~$ umask + umask 0002 genesis58@Trainee:~$ umask -S + umask -S u=rwx,g=rwx,o=rx

11b. Set the umask to 077, but use the symbolic format to set it. Verify that this works. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~$ umask -S u=rwx,go= + umask -S u=rwx,go= u=rwx,g=,o=

Create a file as root, give only read to others. Can a normal user read this file ? Test writing to this file with nano. 
Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ echo hello > /home/genesis58/Desktop/root.txt
echo hello genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ chmod 744 /home/genesis58/Desktop/root.txt
chmod 744 /home/genesis88/Desktop/root.txt genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ nano root
nano root

Create a file as normal user, give only read to others. Can another normal user read this file ? Test writing to this file with vi. Answer: genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ echo hello > file + echo hello genesis58@Trainee:~/Desktop$ chmod 744 file + chmod 744 file Yes, others can read this file

Can root read this file ? Can root write to this file with vi ? 
Answer: Yes, root can read and write to this file. Because Permissions do not apply to root.

Create a directory that belongs to a group, where every member of that group can read and write to files, and create files. Make sure that people can only delete their own files. 
Answer: mkdir /home/project49 groupadd project49 chgrp project49 /home/project49 chmod 775 /home/project49